announce and add notes for n30352 (#767)
bitcoin-core-review-club/website: _posts/2024-08-07-#30352.md

  3](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/blob/master/03-transactions.md#to_local_anchor-and-to_remote_anchor-output-option_anchors))
  has a few limitations described in [this blog post](https://bitcoinops.org/en/blog/waiting-for-confirmation/#policy-as-an-interface).

    - The most relevant point here is the fact that the anchors currently specify a p2wsh script including two spending
      paths: using the party's funding key, or anyone 16 blocks after the transaction confirms. Spending this anchor
      output requires paying fees for a relatively large amount of data.

    - Assuming there are no other reasons to use keyed anchor outputs (out of scope for this review club), a keyless
      anchor may reduce complexity (including for a watchtower) and make fee-bumping more space and fee-efficient.

- [Ephemeral Anchors](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/ephemeral-anchors/) enables a new pattern for adding fees to
  presigned transactions, with a few key improvements:

    - The anchor output can have any `nValue`, including amounts below the dust threshold such as 0, as long as it is

>       spent immediately by a fee-bumping child. Implementing this policy requires ensuring that a dusty anchor is always

Author: Added some of this, hopefully people who are confused read the link :shrug:

>       spent immediately by a fee-bumping child. Implementing this policy requires ensuring that a dusty anchor is always

Author: just "the anchor" now

      spent after subsequent mempool updates, so it is only implemented for TRUC transactions. This portion of the
      proposal was split into its own PR, [#30239](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/30239).

    - The anchor output is "keyless" or "anyone-can-spend", reducing the amount of data (and thus fees) needed in the
      CPFP transaction, and making it easier for watchtowers to help broadcast presigned transactions. This part of the
      proposal, [#30352](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/30352), is independent of the "ephemeral dust"

>       concept, and the implementation does not benefit from simpler topologies.

Author: made it "simple regardless of topology"

   (Hint: how do [`IsStandard`](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/fa0b5d68823b69f4861b002bbfac2fd36ed46356/src/policy/policy.cpp#L70) and [`AreInputsStandard`](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/fa0b5d68823b69f4861b002bbfac2fd36ed46356/src/policy/policy.cpp#L177) treat this type?)

1. Before this PR, with default settings, which output types that can be _created_ in a standard transaction? Is
   that the same as the script types that can be _spent_ in a standard transaction?

1. Define _anchor output_, without mentioning Lightning Network transactions (try to be more general).

1. The PR description [claims](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/30352#issue-2378948027) that creation of the defined P2A output type is already standard prior to the PR. Is this true, and how did you verify this?

1. Why does the size of the output script of an anchor output matter?

1. What other ways can you think of to implement an 'anyone-can-spend' anchor?

1. What would be the problem with using `P2SH(OP_TRUE)`?

1. What is the difference between `OP_TRUE` and `OP_1`? (Hint: where are they defined in the code?)

> 1. How many virtual bytes are needed to create and spend this anchor output?

Author: changed to p2a

---
layout: pr
date: 2024-08-07

> title: "Add PayToAnchor(P2A), OP\_1 <0x4e73> as standard output sript for spending"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Add PayToAnchor(P2A), OP\_1 <0x4e73> as standard output script for spending"
```

pr: 30352
authors: [instagibbs]
components: ["tx fees and policy"]
host: glozow
status: upcoming
commit:
---

## Notes

- LN commitment transactions may use [anchor outputs](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/anchor-outputs/) to allow channel
  participants to CPFP the presigned transactions at broadcast time. The current design (see [BOLT
  3](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/blob/master/03-transactions.md#to_local_anchor-and-to_remote_anchor-output-option_anchors))
  has a few limitations described in [this blog post](https://bitcoinops.org/en/blog/waiting-for-confirmation/#policy-as-an-interface).

    - The most relevant point here is the fact that the anchors currently specify a p2wsh script including two spending
      paths: using the party's funding key, or anyone 16 blocks after the transaction confirms. Thus, using anchor
      outputs requires knowing the funding key and paying fees for the relatively large amount of data that needs to be
      included in the child transaction.

>     - Assuming there are not other reasons to use keyed anchor outputs (out of scope for this review club), a keyless

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Assuming there are no other reasons to use keyed anchor outputs (out of scope for this review club), a keyless
```

      anchor may reduce complexity (including for a watchtower) and make fee-bumping more space and fee-efficient.

- [Ephemeral Anchors](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/ephemeral-anchors/) enables a new pattern for adding fees to
  presigned transactions, with a few key improvements:

    - The anchor output can have any `nValue`, including amounts below the dust threshold such as 0, as long as it is
      spent immediately by a fee-bumping child. Implementing this policy requires ensuring that a dusty anchor is always
      spent after subsequent mempool updates, so it is only implemented for TRUC transactions. This portion of the
      proposal was split into its own PR, [#30239](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/30239).

    - The anchor output is "keyless" or "anyone-can-spend", reducing the amount of data (and thus fees) needed in the
      CPFP transaction, and making it easier for watchtowers to help broadcast presigned transactions. This part of the

>       proposal, [#30352](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/30352), is independent from the "ephemeral dust"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      proposal, [#30352](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/30352), is independent of the "ephemeral dust"
```

      concept, and the implementation does not benefit from simpler topologies.

- This PR does two things: it defines `OP_1 <0x4e74>` as a new output type, and relaxes policy rules to make it standard
  to spend this output type, as long as the witness is empty.

- While `scriptPubKey`s can be fairly freeform, Bitcoin Core enumerates several `TxoutType`s. These correspond to output
  types that you may be familiar with like `SCRIPTHASH` (P2SH), `WITNESS_V0_KEYHASH` (P2WPKH), `WITNESS_V0_SCRIPTHASH`
  (P2WSH), and `NULL_DATA` (`OP_RETURN` or datacarrier).

    - [`Solver`](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/24f86783c87e836c98404bcc20a07742736d6b56/src/script/solver.cpp#L141) pattern-matches `scriptPubKey`s to classify their output type; anything that does not fall into the known categories is `TxoutType::NONSTANDARD`.

>     - By default, a transaction must pass standardness checks in order to be accepted to mempool. `IsStandardTx()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - By default, a transaction must pass standardness checks to be accepted to mempool. `IsStandardTx()`
```

      inspects the `TxoutType`s of each of the transaction's [inputs and outputs](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/fa0b5d68823b69f4861b002bbfac2fd36ed46356/src/policy/policy.cpp#L111-L148), among other checks.

>     - Notice the difference in rules applied to inputs and outputs. It's possible that a particular output type is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Notice the difference in rules applied to inputs and outputs. A particular output type may be
```

      nonstandard to create but standard to spend, and vice versa.

## Questions

1. Did you review the PR? [Concept ACK, approach ACK, tested ACK, or NACK](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#peer-review)? What was your review approach?

1. Before `TxoutType::ANCHOR` is defined in this PR, what `TxoutType` would a `scriptPubKey` `OP_1 <0x4e73>` be classified as? (Hint:
   what would [`Solver`](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/24f86783c87e836c98404bcc20a07742736d6b56/src/script/solver.cpp#L141) return?)

> 1. Based on the answer to the previous question, would it be standard to create this output type? What about spend it?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Based on the answer to the previous question, would it be standard to create this output type? What about to spend it?
```

   (Hint: how do [`IsStandard`](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/fa0b5d68823b69f4861b002bbfac2fd36ed46356/src/policy/policy.cpp#L70) and [`AreInputsStandard`](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/fa0b5d68823b69f4861b002bbfac2fd36ed46356/src/policy/policy.cpp#L177) treat this type?)

> 1. Before this PR, with default settings, what are the output types that can be _created_ in a standard transaction? Is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Before this PR, with default settings, which output types that can be _created_ in a standard transaction? Is
```

   that the same as the script types that can be _spent_ in a standard transaction?

1. Define _anchor output_, without mentioning Lightning Network transactions (try to be more general).

1. The PR description [claims](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/30352#issue-2378948027) that creation of the defined P2A output type is already standard prior to the PR. Is this true, and how did you verify this?

1. Why does the size of the output script of an anchor output matter?

1. What other ways can you think of to implement an 'anyone-can-spend' anchor?

1. What would be the problem with using `P2SH(OP_TRUE)`?

1. What's the difference between `OP_TRUE` and `OP_1`? (Hint: where are they defined in the code?)

> 1. What is the number of virtual bytes needed to create and spend this anchor output?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. How many virtual bytes are needed to create and spend this anchor output?
```
